Build a testimonial widget for your website with Directus and Svelte (#288)
directus-labs/guest-authoring: testimonial-widget/index.md

---
title: 'Build a testimonial widget for your website with Directus and Svelte'
description: 'Create a testimonial widget using Directus and Svelte.'
author:
  name: 'Quadri Sheriff'
  avatar_file_name: 'add-to-directory'
---

> ## Introduction
> 
> In this guide, we will setup a testimonial widget using SvelteKit and Directus as a CMS. By following this tutorial, you will learn how to:
> 
> - Create a Directus project and setup a Directus collection.
> - Add data to a Directus collection from a Svelte app.
> - Retrieve and display data from a Directus collection in your Svelte website.
> 
> ## Before You Start
> 
> You will need:
> 
> - To install Node.js and a code editor on your computer.
> - A Directus project - follow our [quickstart guide](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html) if you don't already have one.
> - Some knowledge of Svelte.
> 
> <!-- ## Your Sections Here -->
> ## Setup a Directus collection for data storage
> 
> To begin, we need to setup a Directus collection for storing our Testimonial data. Login to your Directus app and navigate to **Settings** > **Data Model**.
> 
> Click the + icon and create a new collection called `Testimonials`.
> 
> Add the following fields to the `Testimonials` collection and save:
> 
> - `full_name` (Type: String, Interface: Input): To capture the user's full name.
> - `email_address` (Type: String, Interface: Input): To store the user's email address.
> - `review` (Type: Text, Interface: TextArea): To store the user's testimonials.
>   
> ![Add testimonial fields](./testimonial_fields.png)
> 
> ### Enable Public Access to your Directus collection
> 
> The next step in this tutorial is to enable public access to the Testimonials collection. Head over to **Settings** > **Access Control** > **Public role**.
> 
> Toggle **Create** and **Read** permission from “No Access” to “All Access”.
> 
> ![Enable testimonail public access](./testimonial_public_access.png)
> 
> This change allows you to add and retrieve testimonials directly from your frontend with no authentication.
> 
> ### Add Initial data to your Directus collection
> 
> Navigate to **Content** > **Testimonials** in your Directus app and Click the + icon. Fill the collection fields and and save.
> 
> ![Enable testimonail public access](./testimonial_item.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will setup a testimonial widget using SvelteKit and Directus as a backend. 

## Before You Start

You will need:

- To install Node.js and a code editor on your computer.
- A Directus project - follow our [quickstart guide](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html) if you don't already have one.
- Some knowledge of Svelte.

## Setting Up Your Directus Project

Create a `Testimonials` collection with the following fields:

- `full_name` (Type: String, Interface: Input): To capture the user's full name.
- `email_address` (Type: String, Interface: Input): To store the user's email address.
- `review` (Type: Text, Interface: TextArea): To store the user's testimonials.

Then give the public role full access to create and read items in the `Testimonials` collection.

Create 3 example testimonials from the content module.
```

It's safe to assume basic system knowledge, so you can be less detailed about common tasks with the Directus system.
